In this video,
we are going to examine examples of
Diagrams that will give you a sense of
some of the more complicated organizations
you could encounter in
the databases you work with.
Let's jump in and start with this one.
In this example, classroom is our entity.
Classroom ID is an underlined
attribute in parentheses and
has two attributes of
its own attached to it.
What does that mean?
If you examine the details of the diagram,
you'll see that the two attributes
attached to classroom ID,
are building, and room number.
Since they are not underlined,
neither one of those attributes will
have unique values in the database.
However, the fact that ClassroomID
is underlined in parentheses
indicates that if you combine the values
of building and RoomNumber together,
you will get a unique identifier or
key that will be different for
every row in the table, or more formally,
for every entity instance.
The diagram tells us this in two ways.
First, ClassroomID is in parentheses,
which means it is a composite attribute.
Composite attributes are measurements or
descriptions that have important meaning
that can be created by combining other
attributes being tracked and saved.
So to save space,
composite attributes are usually not made
into their own columns in a database.
Since ClassroomID is connected to building
and room number, we know that they must
be the attributes you would put
together to make ClassroomID.
The fact that ClassroomID is underlined
as well as in parentheses tells us
that this composite attribute is critical
for identifying each unique classroom.
The practical implications of this
are that if the classroom entity
was made into a table and you tried to
combine or join another table with it,
your join would only work if
you use both the building and
room number attributes to make
unique key or identifier.
Using one attribute alone wouldn't work
and if it did work, because the data base
wasn't configured properly,
you wouldn't get the right answer.
Let's look at another one.
This one has some similarities
to the one we just saw.
It has an important difference.
In this example,
building is now an entity and
it has a unique attribute that
can be used as a unique key.
The unique key would be BuildingID.
However, building is related to apartment,
which is depicted with a double rectangle
and whose unique key would be,
well, less clear.
Department number is underlined
with a dash line, and
I haven't told you what that or the double
rectangle and double diamond mean yet.
Apartment is an example of what is
called a weak entity with a partial key.
The double rectangle indicates
that it is a weak entity.
The dashed line underneath apartment
number means that the apartment number in
the database on its own will
not identify an apartment.
In other words, there are multiple
apartment number fours in the database,
thus apartment number can
at best be a partial key.
Nonetheless, a partial key can become
unique in it's own weak entity if,
and only if, it is connect to
the unique key of the entity
it is connected to with a double diamond.
So, in this case,
the apartment number will be unique
if it is combined with building ID,
since building is the entity apartment is
connected to it with a double diamond.
In other words, there's only one instance
of each apartment number in each building.
Note that combining apartment number
with just any attribute in building
like number of floors would not
create a unique identifier.
You would have to combine it
specifically with BuildingID
since that's the unique attribute.
You would need to make sure you understood
this if you were going to extract data to
analyze information about the apartments
such as if you wanted to examine
electricity usage in individual units,
for example.
Okay.
Okay,
let's look at one slightly
more complicated example.
Stare at it a bit and see if you can
make a guess about what's going on.
In general, you can see that students
are taking a bunch of classes, but
student names can't be connected directed
with class levels or ideas in this data,
despite the fat that both student and
class have a unique attribute.
Apparently, the only way they can be
connected is if you combine them via
the semester the class was taken.
What that means is that students can
take the same class multiple times.
Probably, because they may have to
take the class again if they fail or
do very poorly the first, or second time.
If you wanted to analyze data
about students and class,
you would have to combine not two tables,
but three tables to get the data you want.
Further, since completion is a weak
entity, when you actually wrote
the queries, you would have to make
sure specified both the partial key and
the unique keys when you
try to join the tables.
This is a good example of how in real life
the data we try to put in a table format
can be complicated.
And if you don't have a map with
your database to help you figure out
what's going on,
it can take quite a while to figure out
how to combine the different parts of
the database together to correctly
give you the information you want.
Sometimes you might have to put four or
fives together in one query, and each of
those tables might have to be linked with
the other tables in a different way.
This is why I want to make
sure you understand Diagrams.
First, like I said before, reading
the Diagrams of many different databases
will give you an idea of what types
of relationships you are likely to
see in your databases in real life, and
it'll give you experience with some of
the strange situations that could
cause problems in your data analysis.
This will be particularly useful
experience to have when working with
databases that have not been cleaned
before they've been given to you,
such as those you might encounter
in middle sized or small companies.
You'll also see strange database
relationships arise in big companies,
when the databases you are working
with are not originally designed for
the current data that are being
collected or analyzed.
The second reason I want to make sure you
understand the Diagrams is so that if you
do find yourself running into difficulty
getting the information you want out of
a relational database, you will be able
to ask your database administrator for
the Diagram of the database
to help you figure it out.
For many people, and I hope for you,
seeing the database represented in this
very visual way in front of your eyes can
be the best way to translate a map of
the database into your own head,
which in turn will help you construct
queries that work and that accurately
reflect the what you want them to.
I have included some Diagrams with
the course materials that were donated by
Nenad Jukic, professor of at Quinlan
School of Business at Loyola University,
Chicago, from his own textbook.
You are not required to complete them,
but I highly recommend that you do.
I wanted to make sure that you at
least had the opportunity to work
through these exercises,
because in the end
you will be a much more powerful SQL user
if you have studied a lot of Diagrams and
are confident you understand
the concepts they represent.